Yeah, let's do a little check to make sure things don't work.
Technical wonders.
Hello.
Testing, one, two, three.
Okay.
We are there.
We had finished something, hadn't we?
We had just finished your question.
And his answer.
You're going to say something?
No, I'm expecting over there for something.
Go ahead.
I had one more question.
On one of your novels, the veils of Azlarok, as it's pronounced?
I guess so.
As a reader, I would probably have to say that would be your most hard science book.
Well, I guess I wouldn't really think of it that way because these veils are so totally
lacking in any real scientific basis that I don't think most scientists would think
was anything to do with hard science, actually.
Well, the mechanism used to explain it.
What was it?
There was a pulsar in a black hole.
Yeah.
And what was the third, the Azlarok itself?
Well, the third body in this mutual orbit was Azlarok itself, which is not really a planet,
but a place partly habitable because there were layers of gravity reversal or something
or other.
Anyway, it was like a vast world.
There was lots of space for people to live.
The air was good and the temperature was good and everything else was totally weird.
Were you convinced in me?
The veils and the setup there sounded to me like you were...
Well, one thing I like, I got to have people walking around on the surface of a pulsar,
which was a lot of fun.
When you deal with something that's as hard science as that, do you worry about the research
and being scientifically accurate part of it?
No, because if I was going to be scientifically accurate, there's no way I'd get them walking
around on the surface of the pulsar or going through the black hole and popping out again.
I want it to sound as if it's scientifically accurate, but actually what I'm doing is writing
fiction and if the science helps it work as fiction, fine.
It's certainly nobody's going to take it as a scientific theory of any kind, I hope.
In other words, you see yourself more as an entertainer, more than somebody with...
For instance, some science fiction writers that we've talked to or interviewed sort of
see themselves as having a mission, either bringing science fiction into the mainstream
of literature or educating people in the intricacies of science or something, but that wouldn't
be your concern simply to tell a story would be your...
My concern is to tell a story.
I think if I interest people in science indirectly, then maybe I've achieved some good for the
future of our scientific progress, but I'm not a trained scientist and I'm not really out
to sell science.
In the years you've been in the field, it seems to me that there's been a tremendous boom
in readers and popularity of science fiction.
What would you attribute this to?
Simply a larger reading public, more authors?
A larger public and probably a better educated public.
I don't know what else you could say.
When you're writing, since you've written both in fantasy and in science fiction, do
you find one easier to work with than the other?
I like to change back and forth.
I get a little tired of doing whatever it is I'm doing after a long book and then I
like to do something as different as I can find from that.
How do you react to the so-called new wave that has hit and possibly passed now?
Do you consider yourself in any way connected with that?
No, I don't have any special feelings about it one way or the other.
I don't think you'd call it the new wave any longer, whatever it was.
Some years ago, I think people were talking about this.
Would you say that science fiction is so different from other, say, mainstream?
I keep using the term mainstream literature.
That it is a separate thing and should be kept there.
That certain qualities, for instance, the characters of science fiction, the emphasis
on ideas, it's a different kind of literature that should be kept separate.
No, I don't think so.
Until just the last, what would you say, 100 years or maybe less?
There was no division of literature that I know about into mainstream and other things.
It's this division that seems to me a temporary change that should probably be abolished.
Nobody, I mean Shakespeare uses ghosts freely.
There's no, nobody thought anything of it.
It seems at times that possibly the separation of different types of literature is perpetuated
by the publishers more than anybody else.
Well, I think you have the rack of thrilling romances and the rack of westerns and the rack
of science fiction.
But when the really popular books come along, they go over in the rack, it says best sellers.
You know, they could be, yeah, I think it's probably the publishers who tend to, this
is a western, it has to have this, it should be about this long and it should have this
kind of a cover on it.
And we'll classify it this way and then we send it out.
So what's science fiction?
What about some, do you have any contemporary science fiction authors that you particularly
admire or like to read for enjoyment?
Oh, there's a lot of them I admire.
Actually reading science fiction, I don't do as much of that as I used to.
I guess I just don't have time and there's a lot of other interesting things, history
and so on I like to read.
I don't really think I want to start naming authors because there are many good ones around.
Do you have anything that you're working on currently?
Yeah, I'm working on a collaboration with Roger Zalazny and I just finished a book called
Octagon I mentioned earlier and I hope soon to be putting together an anthology of stories
having to do with science fiction and chess, board games.
And that's what I'm working on right now, there are other ideas waiting in the wings.
What about movies? Have you had any movie rights taken up in any of your books?
No, I had Nibbles a couple of times and once we got very close and then the man who was
going to buy it had to use his money for a lawsuit or something or other I think.
But so far no.
Would it be fair to ask you what of your works do you consider to be your favorites?
I'd probably give you a different answer on different days.
I don't know, they all look very good when I start them and some of them even look very good
when I finish them and I don't think I can step aside that much and really compare them
with other people's books or even compare them among themselves.
I only had one more question. Do you keep up with science fiction movies or science fiction
in other media? Do you have any particularly favorite movies or any comments on how Hollywood
handled science fiction?
I thought 2001 was very good going back a few years.
I didn't like Star Wars at all, I guess I was one of the few people in the world who was just
completely turned off by then.
Nothing else springs to mind immediately.
Okay, that's about all I would have.
Anything else to add?
Anything you want to add to get on the tape?
Anything you want to say for a pop star?
I'll vote for all the people in the Fermi and Basin.